 Where'd you guys stand?
 I stayed downtown. He stayed in Detroit. He's been here since last week. Oh, he has? Yeah, I had some police apprenticeship work to do up in Flint. Where did you stay downtown?
 Marriott? I think I've got some there every year. I've got some animus. I've been in the 12-step recovery since 1987. Where have you been? I thought you died.
 Huh?
 I've been around, I showed up Monday morning, and maybe we'll be meeting, something's going on, so the state of the work, and the
 Couldn't make a meeting last week Wednesday.
 What was it called? Fruit of Islam? Yeah.
 They had somebody special come in and they had secret service and all that stuff. So the Renaissance Center is dead around.
 Yeah, they took everything out. They took everything out. They got ready to tear down two towers, the two towers that are on the river. Mm-hmm.
 It's hard to believe because I still remember when they opened it in 1977, and now they're tearing part of it down.
 And it's never really been successful successful because it was so walled off from the city.
 That's what makes me wonder how well the Michigan Central Project will work. Seems to be...
 Doing really well. All the property around it's skyrocketing. Now, what's the demand for million-dollar condos in downtown Detroit? Right.
 Detroit's got an extremely high poverty rate. Every time. Every time.
 It's got a very high literacy rate. Those are the types of things that Detroit needs to solve
 Like, you can move into even a nice neighborhood in the city, right?
 They can't go play in the park without supervision, without an adult being with them.
 Most of the shopping that you do in the city, unless you do specialty shopping in some of the neighborhoods, where you want to go out every night and eat at high-end restaurants downtown, you got to go out to the suburbs to shop.
 I lived in the city for 35 years. And I miss it because all my friends live there. Because most of my younger adult life I grew up there.
 You can just see what happens. Yeah, I went for a running show, Jason.
 I'm actually dressed like this because of this leg. You love shorts, Gary. I do, but I mean, when people come in, I usually wear long pants.
 Do you like to wear your short shorts? No. Do you want to do these shorts? Nah.
 Why don't you guys come up here and sit around the table so we can see each other.
 So why don't we just go around and do a brief introduction so everybody knows who everybody is.
 My name is Charles Ergon. I'm the director of workforce education for workforce training academy for WTA. I'm Chris, recruiter here, team academy. You're welcome.
 I'm Shane. I'm with Serato's Job Corps side of the house, apprenticeships, Job Corps standards. I'm Tyler. I'm a CNC instructor at Team Up.
 I'm Kevin, I'm a recruiter. Also Kevin, Kevin Lightwood, instructor at the Team Up Academy. William Heron, instructor.
 So John's running late, but I wanted to get it started so we can be done by 1230 because people have commitments and things to do right.
 So I was talking with Charles and in fact, you guys were right. So there was only one WTA book.
 We've got to keep two books, though. So the WTA book needs to stay. WTA, we can't alter it. So if inspectors come in or the government comes in,
 That's the book we have to give them. And even with students that do not come through the WIOA system,
 they all gotta be entered into the WIOA system. Because they all have to be tracked according to the federal government.
 in there, it goes to all students, no matter what. There's a Roman application in there. Yeah, there's a Roman application in there that goes to everybody. It's either WIOA or it's regular something off the street.
 If it's somebody that John wants to do a free class for, it don't matter what it is, it's an enrollment application that needs to be filled out. So are we doing two applications then?
 No, we're only going to do one. So what I'm going to do is, if it's OK with you, I'm going to take the book home tonight and I'm going to start to go through it.
 and figure out which things we want for our own book. So we have a standard operating procedure, but that book is only going to be internal. Nobody's ever going to see it.
 The other thing that came out of the meeting today, and I knew this but I didn't know it, is because with WIOA funding and ETPL funding, it's under...
 Workforce Training Academy, USA? Team Up Academy is not listed.
 in the directory, like on Michigan Works or anything.
 and I'm gonna have to talk to John about this, but we're gonna need to start reframing that we are WTA
 Team Up Academy. Yeah, so what you can do as recruiters, what you guys can do is when you guys go into meetings, oh yeah, we run a school through a workforce training academy and partnership with Team Up Academy.
 They're going to be like, what is that? Oh, well, the school is, we're training academy, but the location we have that is that team of academy.
 Long story short. So everything with the MTA, because I said when the students go back to Michigan Works or anything
 They're not going to remember that. They're going to have to remember.
 They're going to have to remember it, right? So that's why you just say you're going to go in there and ask for World First Training Academy because that's the actual school that's going to be providing the training, the certificate for you, but the headquarters are Team Up Academy.
 And I think, so I've got to talk to John about it and I've got to talk to Julie about it on how to frame it. And we might end up getting new business cards. Okay. Okay.
 I want to make sure that there's, I don't want two conversations going on where we're talking to one group of people about, well, we're Team Up Academy, or we're talking about our
 As soon as they leave, they're going to go look up WTA.
 The thing with WIOA government purposes is WCA for the funding. It is at Team Hope Academy. For example,
 We have Workforce Training Academy in partnership with Chairside Dental. Chairside does our dental academy, right? Everybody knows when they go to WIOA for the recruiters, you got to tell them, hey,
 If you go to any work stores, you are going to have to ask for WTA. Yes, it was. I mean, you guys are just going to keep using, you know, team of academy. When it comes to anything that has to do with the government and WIOA,
 It has to be WTA. Well, that's why I want to talk to John, because I want John to make the decision with me on how we want to frame.
 Personally, I'd rather have it just one way as opposed to having two ways.
 It's his decision. Yeah. When you guys go into a business meeting, I make your team up academy all day. But when it comes to people that have government ties, like we owe up,
 it had to say WTA. Because then the Lady Tay was like, wait, I looked up Team Up Academy, it's not that. Yeah, because it's the WTA.
 And today was a good example. So the lady that we talked to today represents all of Wayne County except the city of Detroit, all the Michigan Works offices.
 So, you know, she was confused. So the message has to be, you know, we're Workforce Training Academy USA.
 as a partner in Team Up Academy. But I'll have the framing around that as soon as I can. So when I come in tomorrow,
 kind of have some notes on this and maybe you and I can go over it and then we can figure out who we want to do what on the SOPs.
 So since we're basically a WTA or parent company, let's call it. Well, they're really not. They don't own it. It's a partnership partnership.
 Okay, so that's why we do all your SOPs when the state comes in. No, yes, but because they're the people with the,
 agreement with the federal government. They're way more advanced licensing-wise than we would be in five years, right? Because they have all these, because they've been doing it
 So if we were to go after we all funding ourselves, I mean, we need to be licensed as an educational institution.
 It takes about three or five years. So it's pretty much using the license and the name, right? But it is Team Up Academy. That's the, like I said, every time you go into somewhere, you can say, hey,
 You know, when it comes to WIOA, you say, you know, I represent Workforce Training Academy in partnership with Team Up Academy. What does that mean?
 Oh, yeah, you know, we work for a training academy when it comes to training. It's just the headquarters are at T-Move Academy. Okay. That's the question. Oh, so you guys have to train at T-Move Academy? Yeah, but WTA is there.
 Simple as that. It doesn't have to get into like the whole realm of, you know, John partnered with Ramon and they talked with him. That's it. They don't need to know all those details. It's just WTA.
 in partnership with Team Up Academy. And they were like, oh, where's that at? Oh, at the Team Up location. Oh, OK, cool. So they have your facilities. They use your facilities.
 Most of us aren't going to be having those conversations with people, but you guys are.
 I mean, we should just make a script for it. Well, I'm going to, but I want to talk to John first and see where his head's at, and then work with Julie on getting the scripting
 handouts and all that sort of stuff. So all of our brochures will probably change. Anything that goes to WIO, they're going to have a WTA flyer.
 If, I'm just thinking ahead, but I think that what's gonna happen is like our application and everything.
 when they go to apply online, like on our website, it's actually going to take them into the CRM platform to fill out the applications.
 So it transfers over automatically. So it transfers over automatically, so we don't need to do anything. Yeah, so what happens is you guys go online, you'll fill out a questionnaire,
 So we'll still get a notice that when applications come in,
 but it's gonna come in through a different platform. So those are some of the logistics I gotta figure out.
 Today, this morning, got the proposal from Julie and Damaris. So I've got to go over it later tonight and then respond back.
 put some pricing around, and then talk to John. So while they're here, do you guys have any questions
 from Charles or Shane about SOPs or the relationship with Serato. No, I just want to hear that first part you said again. What? Are you the right part?
 All right. No, I mean, big boy. We basically had an understanding, like, this is our main thing.
 And then, you know, we're basically going to take the information in here and put it towards ours. We're not changing anything, Ms. Buck.
 Use it to modify our stuff. So for the SOPs, and at any point now, like, this is the model for SOPs. Like, for example, what we get is off different companies. Some companies add to it.
 Okay. Right? And that in regards to, let's say, for example, you want a specific way the teachers teach. Okay. Right? In the morning, you can say,
 from eight to nine o'clock to do an old review. That's part of the SOP.
 Every class, every hour, it has to be over. That's totally up to you guys and how the SOP works. Let's say, for example, the tool inventory, right? That's going to be an SOP you guys create through the team of the academy.
 Because for us, it doesn't really matter. This is your location.
 So they're not going to ask for the tool inventory for WIOA, unless it's a John Corps one, but you guys can get my team on the team anymore. Like, hey, at this location, you guys create your own SOP.
 from 8.30 to 9 in the SLP community. It's the first hour of the day, check out tools. And then from there, at lunchtime, 30 minutes prior to lunch, everybody checks in tools.
 Right, that's standard operating procedures. At 3.30, 30 minutes before the shift is over, you got to check in tools again.
 You know, it's like all three instructors have to sign off, or two of the three instructors have to sign off, whatever you guys want as part of the SOP as a procedure. And that goes into it.
 There's only one instructor here. What do you do? Hey, send an email, right? Hey, Gary.
 I know you're not here, and the other trucker's not here either. I'm letting you know that it's 359, and I'm going to sign out. Alex goes right here.
 counsel the staff towards that procedure. You have to do it that way too. There's different ways you guys can add to that. Let's say for example,
 the instructors, you guys start coming in like, I don't know what your schedules are, right? You guys see that now there's a SOP in there for HR saying, hey,
 30 minutes prior to you knowing you're gonna be late, send a text message to Ebo or call John or Gary saying you're gonna be late. That's procedures. You guys can go ahead and add them.
 And we're going to develop some of this. So that way you guys have a structured HR slash initiative.
 I was gonna ask you a friend. Okay, can I do them in the morning? Yeah, as long as we get. Okay.
 Is there any chance we're getting the new flyers by then or not? We dug into the 3D printer a little bit.
 Tyler's got some scope on that and how we can move forward. We covered graduation.
 We got some SDS sheets up, so that's good. Marvin's mock interview was good.
 And last thing, he got 90 on his test last week. How much did math do?
 Yeah, well, it's half. So the 50% of the test is literally four math questions that they should get correct.
 and then three measurements, and that's half of their grade. And that's just prepping them for the mock interview.
 Because we were getting people that wanted to go into the mock interview, wanted to get into the mock interview, but they were just bombing right off the bat. And it was just kind of wasting their time.
 So that's why we just did a test. And then it's like, you pass the test, now you're eligible for the mock interview.
 You were talking about Julie with the CRM. Is there any chance we can start putting classes
 on to absorb for my CNC? So the short answer is yes.
 but I've got to ink the contract with Julie first. I literally got the first draft yesterday night. I already reviewed it this morning.
 I owe her a response, and then I'm going to schedule a meeting with her tomorrow or Friday to go over it. All right. So I guess just keep waiting.
 You have to understand, I asked for this from Serato in November. Okay. Is it? Because I don't think it's exactly what I'm asking for.
 Is it connected, directly connected, indirectly connected? I don't understand. Anything with Julie now has to go. We have to have a conversation.
 Okay. So, because I remember we set absorb up and she was showing us how to use absorb.
 And she told us that I could add my classes. This was back last year, like it was last summer.
 You can. Now that we've signed this WTA contract, there's very specific things that we pay for in
 or complimentary, not complimentary. So usually time is part of a new contract.
 any of that in the standard procedures too?
 like how we go about making updates to our class curriculum and how the students experience overall is. Is your class already an observer?
 You were already having class, yes. Yeah, so the class is already in there. Yes. So you go ahead and adjust it. How classes are in the platform.
 I have a bunch of... Believe it.
 I have only tooling used that was an absorb. I want to get everything else that we do in that class loaded up so it has a digital record.
 And same thing with boot camp. We wanted it all digitally. No, it's only about half. Yeah.
 What's the class title? Just CNC. It's all that says, CNC machining.
 Yeah. Cause then even my part is in CNC, which is the safety part of it. So we pulled that out of there too. It's just lumped in.
 And then restructuring it too, because I have a whole sheet that I have to give them with it.
 And then it's like, if they don't have that little printout, they're just looking at absorb and it's like,
 Here's just a pool of classes to take at random. We were going to set that up, but...
 Yeah, we never had a chance. You have that class and then you just add to it, add some addition to it. No, but I want Julie to not only add all the classes
 Everybody's teaching, but it's got to be in sequence, and they've got to complete one in order to go to the next one. They just can't willy-nilly take it.
 So give me another couple of them. All right. I've been borrowing and stealing trying to get them to move. Sounds good. I'll just keep the persistence.
 Anything else? No, I'm all set. So my side of it with the Job Corps part,
 we're gonna immediately start sending Chris and Kevin referrals from our missing placements. These are students that have graduated
 either the entire program that haven't gotten a job yet or that are
 maybe one program completed and they completed their high school, not their training or vice versa. We'll talk again once we open the doors to active Job Corps students.
 because that's a totally different story. They understand when you get active Job Corps students, you have a village. You have their counselor. You have their residential advisor.
 So any issues that you have with them once they're here, there's a village supporting you here as their instructors.
 And that's where that safety portion of it becomes really important because God forbid, one of them walks out with a box cutter, because we've saw this, or those stupid cutters that they use to open the bags at Chipotle.
 A student came back on campus with that and was terminated from the program because it's considered a weapon. So that's where those safety, those tool count abilities are so big once we get active Job Corps students here.
 But we'll start sending you referrals immediately for those that transportation shouldn't be an issue to get to this location. So when do you think we'll start seeing some referrals?
 Next week. I can get you referrals next week. I'm waiting for the missing placement report. As soon as I get that, I'll figure out where they're at, and I'll start shooting with you guys.
 So I'll send you, well, you have my email, and you can share it with them, and I'll send it through to this group. So will these be people, students that actually want to take
 That's what we're going to vet first.
 take students that took electrical or took construction trades and then go from there. Okay. And will they be coming just from Detroit or Detroit on Genesis? From Genesis. Okay. Yeah.
 And we can even pull students that might have attended Grand Rapids that reside in these areas.
 But if they're at the Job Corps, Detroit or Genesee, they'll have the transportation. Yeah, and we're not to that point yet because we have to get the approvals for the slots to be used here.
 But when that does happen, then the talk will happen again on how it will handle Job Corps students. Do you think that will happen next week?
 No, you said the approver.
 No, the approval is approved. I just got, last night I just received the trade change request, which states here's how Detroit has OTP advanced manufacturing, seven slots.
 here's the funding. So we'll, we'll go back and work on MOUs and everything to make sure that we put team up WTA in as the training provider and resource. Um, and just that, you know,
 Team Up Academy will be the transition support. It'll be the support services. WTA is the training program. So we'll do that first.
 but your immediate will be the Job Corps missing placements. Students that are no longer receiving services other than transition services from Job Corps.
 Did you say they completed the course or did not complete it? Either or. Many of them have completed.
 but some might have not been full completers. A lot of times in job course, students will come for the high school and then dip on the trade.
 Sometimes, especially with the pause that we had in work last May, a lot of students left the program before completing, but we're still responsible for placing them.
 So the students in Job Corps, they have up to two years to be on that campus, plus they have another up to 18 months that we provide services once they leave.
 So these are the students we have a list, probably about 80, 90 names of students that are in that realm just from the Detroit Center.
 that we'll be going through over the next few days and just figuring out who would be interested in the CNC program. There's still funding available for them?
 We would put them through WIOA. We would try to find, we would work that part because they're not receiving funding from Job Corps anymore because they are now
 That's the missing placement side of it. It's their transition. So that's the people that we've been calling.
 Yeah. But not the referrals. Correct. The referrals, when they happen, will be you guys funded. Correct.
 So with these guys I can play some jobs.
 And then what kind of do they do? You said electrical work and all their stuff? It's varied. Like the Detroit Job Corps has network cabling. They have electrical.
 And that could even be a source for placement for your graduates if they're between 18 and 24 years old.
 I know we haven't talked much about Job Corps, and that hasn't been the focus for that meeting. When we meet again, we'll go over. We can get a Zoom together where I can talk about the Job Corps programs.
 Because the goal is to increase the placement rates as well, because that's going to open more doors for funding for us for WIOA.
 And if we use Job Corps as a placement for your graduates, it's an easy victory for both.
 Any other concerns or questions, guys? I'm going to ask Shane, you had mentioned if we give you a layout of the building, you said you could do a
 a map for our doors? Does it have to be the spec? No. I've got a map also. Oh, good.
 And I can do your branding and everything on it.
 It even has the equipment layout. Okay. And I'll also be continuing. I'm trying to find employers.
 Right, trying to find employers so that way my goal is to build apprenticeships, but I'm going to start working the employer angle as well.
 to whatever efforts you're currently doing. So I'll make sure I don't step on any feet, but I'm gonna start trying to find employers that will hire our graduates as well.
 Did you guys explain that he's a . You're a student, sorry. OK, yeah.
 No, I think it's still the same, yeah. That way you know. Okay, perfect. Thank you.
 I couldn't remember. Who can help with timekeeping in LMS? Because that's where we want to put it, right? Tulip. Tulip.
 Right, because that's going to be a big one. It's on my list to go over. Right now, everything's still hard copying, like he said. It's got to be in the system.
 I've got to have a contract in place with her before she'll be late anymore. Okay.
 OK, I don't know where John is, so I guess his half hour meeting went to an hour and a half.
 So do you guys need me for anything else today?
 You know how to get a hold of me. I know you got to take off. Otherwise, you're not going to get through customs.
 So do you have my information, email, and stuff? I do. Because I got a lot, like some of these players are looking for,
 I've heard them say electrical and other stuff too, not just CNC, so we might be able to place those and get together.
 Talk about that or whatnot next week, he said. Yeah, what's your email? CMcdonald, CMAC, D-O-N-A-L-D, at teamofacademy.org.
 So it sets them up maybe next week. Where do they fly you to?
 Yeah, but a lot of people want electrical work. And everyone's looking for science. They have a bunch of other stuff, too. They have training and stuff like that. So it's my route.
 If I was to go to Phoenix, I ought to be a guy in Phoenix until, like, 1030 at night. So... Why don't you just have someone to drive up and pick you up at Phoenix?
 Yeah, so what they do is they put me on, I'm from here to DFW, and I'm on my last flight from DFW to Tucson.
 For some reason that flight gets canceled or whatever happens, I'm screwed. I just mean I have to go to the aviation site next day. Surprise, I'm here, guys.
 Okay guys, let's kick ass.
